#summary Knowns issues and troubleshootings

= Introduction =

This page describes knowns issues and workarounds when they are available.

Abbreviations:
 * YN = YouNote
 * YND = YouNote Desktop

= Description =

===An alert on your iPhone/iPod Touch displays "Unable to connect to the selected backup server"===
If you tap the Backup button and have this message, that turns out that YND is unreachable.

_Solution_: disable the firewall on your desktop or enter a port in YND settings and modify the rules of your firewall.

===The backup fails but no message is displayed===
YN backs up your note, the progress bar is displayed but when it's done, no backup archive is stored on your computer. 

_Solution_: the archive file is too big. The only workaround currently is to delete some big notes (!AudioNote is a good candidate). We are working on a new process: back up note after note directly without create a zip file.
===The AudioNotes are not always backed up===
Some !AudioNotes created with a prior release of YN are not sent to YND. In consequence, they are not backed up.

This issue has been fixed with YN 1.1.1.
===The backup fails when the iPhone is in standby mode===
If the backup phase is too long, your iPhone switches over to standby mode. The consequence is that the connection is broken.

This issue has been fixed with YN 1.1.1.
===The backup fails when the connection between YN and YND is too slow===
In certain circumstances, the connection between YN and YND is lost, for example if you backup your notes through internet.

This issue has been fixed with YND 1.2.

===The backup fails when the archive is too big===
When the archive is too big (with a lots of AudioNotes for example or only with a big one like a meeting), YN crashes.

This issue has been fixed with YN 1.1.2.