#summary How to send notes back to your iPhone/iPod touch.

= Introduction =

In this technote, we will explain how you can modify or create new note and send back to your iPhone

*Caution:* make a copy of your last archive before any change. YouNote could stop to work correctly if the data are corrupted.

*Rule to follow*: a backup archive is a folder with notes inside. The folder name must be like !YouNote_bck_20091228_131347 (yyyymmdd__hhmmss). This constraint may change in the future.

The principle is the following:
 # Make a copy of the selected archive just in case
 # apply your modifications
 # transfert your notes on your iPhone/iPod touch by choosing "Restore" on your iPhone

=How modifying the content of a note ?=
Each note is a folder. The folder name is just to help you to recognize the notes. It's composed of the ID and the title. The name of this folder doesn't matter.

What can you modify ?
 * modify the content of a note (!TextNote, !PictNote,...)
 * reorganize !MultiNotes

==Content modification==
First we will see how you can modify the content.

A folder (aka a note) contains at least 2 files:
 * metadata.xml
 * text.txt

The metadata.xml file contains:

  *  unique ID of the note
  *  type (!AudioNote, !TextNote, ...)
  *  title of the note
  *  creation date
  *  modification date
  *  list of tags
  *  list of contacts (list of (id, firstname, lastname))
  *  location (latitude, longitude, altitude)
  *  color (RGB)
  *  url (for a !WebNote)

The different note types are:
  *  0 = !MultiNote
  *  1 = !TextNote
  *  2 = !AudioNote
  *  3 = !PictNote
  *  4 = !DrawNote
  *  5 = !WebNote
  *  6 = !VideoNote

The available colors are:
 * red: (R=201 G=5 B=25)
 * orange: (R=246 G=173 B=1)
 * yellow: (R=255 G=230 B=0)
 * green: (R=119 G=185 B=19)
 * blue: (R=112 G=212 B=229)
 * purple: (R=115 G=77 B=149)
 * gray: (R=100 G=100 B=100)
 * black: (R=0 G=0 B=0)

The format of the creation and modification date follows the international standard for date and time representation ISO 8601. [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601]<br>
Example: 20080828T170635845+200 is 28 August 2008 5:06:35,845 +0200 pm

The text.txt file contains the text you typed when you created a !TextNote. It also contains the comment you may have in any other note (!AudioNote, !WebNote, !PictNote, ..;)

Which files can you modify?
  *  !TextNote: text.txt (UTF-8 encoding)
  *  !PictNote: media.jpg
  *  !DrawNote: media.png
  *  !WebNote: media.jpg
  *  !AudioNote: media.caf

*Caution:* the jpg or png file size must be reasonnable, aka Apple recommends that the size of the picture doesn't exceed 600x600 pixels. YND doesn't make any control of the size of the picture.

Moreover, don't put any other file in a folder/note. At least, il will be ignored or the restoration could fail.

==What about the !MultiNotes ?==
The very first release of YouNote had a bug. Sometimes, an inner note could be moved by YouNote from one !MultiNote to another. Except this bug, you may want do that also for any reason. We will see how.

A !MultiNote is a bit more complex. As every note, there are:
  *  metadata.xml
  *  text.txt
plus some sub folders where each sub folder is a inner note. However, an inner note is exactly the same as a "normal" note.

===Transform an inner note in a normal note===
You can transform an inner note in a "normal" note. To do that you just need to drag and drop the folder/inner note to the highest level.
Note that the reciprocal is true and easy as well.

===Move an inner note===
You can move an inner note from one !MultiNote to another one by just drag and drop it. Suppose you have:

Folder !MultiNote A
  *  inner note A1
  *  inner note A2

Folder !MultiNote B
  *  inner note B1

If you want to move A2 into B, just drag and drop the folder A2 into B

=How adding new note ?=
This part is more tricky because you must create:
  *  a folder for the new note
  *  a metadata.xml file
  *  a text.txt file

It's easier with an example of the creation of a !TextNote with a simple content: "Hello world" with the same title, a color red and a tag "example".

Suppose we have a folder called "YouNote_bck_20081107_124717". In this folder, create a sub folder called "My first TextNote" (remember that the folder name doesn't matter).
Then you must create a metadata.xml file.The best way is to create a template somewhere then make a copy. Set all attributes you want (title, creation date, modification date, …) but pay attention to the:
 * ID
 * type of the note

In our example, we want to create a !TextNote so the type is 1. Pretty simple. 

However, the setting of the ID is not so simple because you have to manually notice the highest ID in the list of Notes. Happily, you don't need to open every metadata.xml file. You just need to look at the folder name because the folder name begins with the ID followed by the title of the note. But pay attention to the inner note too because if the last note you created is an inner note, you didn't see it at first glance.

Or you can set a very high ID, for example, 1000 if you are sure that you have less than 1000 notes. In fact, when YouNote restores your notes, it can change the IDs. So it's unlikely that this note ID remains.

Ok, we know that it's not obvious but it's temporary. 

Finally the metadata.xml file is:
{{{
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<note id="99" type="1">
  <version>1.0.2</version>
  <title>Hello world</title>
  <creationDate>20081130T084130874+0200</creationDate>
  <modificationDate>20081130T152929482+0200</modificationDate>
  <tag>example</tag>
  <Contacts/>
  <geolocalisation>
    <latitude>0</latitude>
    <longitude>0</longitude>
    <altitude>0</altitude>
  </geolocalisation>
  <color>
    <red>201</red>
    <green>5</green>
    <blue>25</blue>
  </color>
  <url></url>
</note>
}}}
To create the text.txt, file, you can use any text editor like Notepad, TextEdit, .;.
The content of the file text.txt is simply: Hello world. Don't forget that the encoding must be UTF-8.

That's it.

*Tip:* the more secure way is to create an empty note on your iPhone then backup your notes so you can apply the above method.