#summary Instructions for use
#labels Phase-Deploy

= Pre requisites =

YouNote and YouNote Desktop work together wirelessly (home local network or internet for example). In consequence, for best results, your iPhone must use a WIFI access.

YouNote Desktop can handle several devices so you can use a single YouNote Desktop to backup/restore more than one iPhone/iPod. YouNote recognizes automatically the appropriate device.

*Important 1:* you can't backup/restore your notes when your iPhone/iPod Touch is tethered to your Mac/PC.

*Important 2:* even if we don't answer to your comments, we read them and we will enhance YouNote Desktop accordingly.

= Details =

In order to backup and restore your notes on your iPhone, you have some parameters to enter.

==The easy way: using Bonjour==

If you are using a Mac or if you have Bonjour installed on your PC (apparently, iTunes installs Bonjour on Windows), you are lucky. 

If you don't have it, take a look [http://www.apple.com/support/downloads/bonjourforwindows.html here (Apple site)]

The first step is to initialize YouNote Desktop by following this instructions: 
  * launch YouNote Desktop 
  * select Preferences item in the Edit menu 
  * choose a backup folder (folder that will contain all your backups) 

Click on the OK button. That's it.

On your iPhone, launch YouNote then follow this instructions:
  * display the list of notes
  * on the bottom left corner, tap the "Backup" icon
  * your desktop is displayed automatically
  * select your desktop in the list (you can have several YouNote Desktop installed on different computers but it can be confusing !).

You are ready to backup/restore your notes.

The first time YouNote establishes a connection, YouNote Desktop displays a pass code. You should type this code when YouNote will ask. Automatically, YouNote will establish the connection with YouNote Desktop.

==The hard way ==

If you don't use Bonjour, it's more complex specially on the iPhone side.

The first step is to initialize YouNote Desktop by following this instructions: 
  * launch YouNote Desktop 
  * select Preferences item in the YouNote menu 
  * choose a backup folder (folder that will contain all your backups) 
  * leave the server port field empty (YouNote Desktop will find automatically a port for you)

Click on the OK button. That's it.

On your iPhone, launch YouNote then follow this instructions:
  * display the list of notes
  * on the bottom left corner, tap the "Backup" icon
  * tap on the "+" button
  * enter a configuration name (for example Home or Office)
  * the IP address of your PC/Mac
  * the port you have entered or assigned automatically by YouNote Desktop

Then touch the OK button and you are ready to backup/restore your notes.

*Important:* you can't delete a configuration with YouNote 1.1. It's not a big deal to have several configurations and we will fix that in the next release.

The first time YouNote establishes a connection, YouNote Desktop displays a pass code. You should type this code when YouNote will ask. Automatically, YouNote will establish the connection with YouNote Desktop.